This is Francis Dam St, outside Los Angeles. Or better, what's left of it. More than 50
meters high, holding back 100,000 tons of water. Until it collapsed disastrous
in 1928, twelve hours after her chief engineer had said that the cracks in it were nothing
be concerned about.
the engine chief in question was William Mulholland. It is one of the reasons that LA
is the size and scale is: Mulholland Drive, home from the stars, is named after him, and
his career before the dam fall was striking. He was in charge of projects that have deviated
a river, and caused what became known as California Water Wars as locals tried to
dynamite and destroy the infrastructure that was pulled all by water away from them
farms. At the opening ceremony of the Los Angeles Waterworks, close to here, like water
cascaded down towards rising the city, Mulholland stated to the mayor of Los Angeles "has
it is, take it. "And they. Remember, Los Angeles was just a small town among many
in the valley at that moment - but its statute does not allow it to provide excess water for
someone else, so the only way for other nearby cities to get access to this was to give up
their independence and become part of LA.
And this may have continued, perhaps Burbank, Pasadena, Anaheim, other cities they have
The special local government today can all be part of a big city ... if it was not
for Francis Dam St.
The main theory of collapse is that the foundations were ill: in the solid bed,
the dam would have been completely safe - but it was built on permeable ground, so weight
the water kept behind the dam started to seep through and soften the ground under it. there
there had always been some cracks in the dam; it was normal for time, concrete
can do it as it determines. But I was beginning to get out, leaks are beginning to grow. Mulholland
and his assistant inspected the dam, and decided that maintenance needed, but the situation
it was not desperate.
Well, maintenance could not have helped: The dam was twelve hours away from the collapse. but
evacuation from the following areas may have saved hundreds of lives. Just before midnight, that
gave catastrophic paths.
And as the investigative courts handed them their decisions, and as the last permanent piece of
dams were destroyed and cleansed to stop sightseers and people taking terrific souvenirs,
cities that have not been eaten by LA yet: Beverly Hills, Santa Monica, many
others - determined that Los Angeles can not be trusted with its water projects. All those
refused to join, and instead they formed it was called a "Water District", with LA - they
took common control of any project like this in the future. The dam fall does not just end up
Career and Mulholland; it ended the assimilation of other cities in LA. We can talk about
urban stretch, everything in the valley, like Los Angeles, but it's not: it's special
special cities and goverements, and one reason is this valley and dam that
is no longer there.
The incredible shooting the man in this video was from these people. Go see their channels.
This is Ed by Media Giraffe.
You can see all 4K footage from this shoot
and some others except on his channel.
And this is Alex from the Gear Hoard,
if you want airplane reviews and giveaways,
go to subscribe to his channel.
And there's a round to sign up here somewhere to mine as well, so ...
Thank you guys! It was wonderful!